# NFHS4Vis
NFHS4Vis is a visual-analytics tool to explore large-scale population survey data, with a focus on the National Family Health Survey 2015-16 in India, also referred to as NFHS-4. A visual analytics tool is where a data analytic workflow, with feedback loops in the presence of interactive visualizations, is implemented. NFHS-4 is a landmark health survey in India, where it gives estimates of most of the health as well as socio-economic indicators at the district level for the first time for all the 640 districts in India. NFHS-4 is the fourth edition of a relatively more frequent national survey conducted by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, and implemented by the Indian Institute of Population Studies.

In the course of creating NFHS4Vis, we have identified under-five child malnutrition to be a serious health threat in India. Globally, 156 million children under five years of age are stunted, 50 million are wasted, and 93 million are underweight (WHO, 2015). The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the millennium development goals (MDGs) call for global efforts on reducing child malnutrition. India is ranked 94 among the 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index 2020 and is in the “serious” hunger class with a score of 27.2, as per https://www.globalhungerindex.org/results.html.

The focus of NFHS4Vis has been to investigate spatial as well as non-spatial analysis of co-occurrence of different malnutrition conditions. The expected outcome,  a visual analytics tool, is designed to explore different sections of the data available in NFHS-4, with a scope of generalization for extensions to future editions of NFHS.

Hence, NFHS4Vis in its current state inspects the variables in its raw form or as weighted aggregate to investigate spatial distribution at both national and district level. We also investigate non-spatial visualizations to give a different perspective to the data. Here, we investigate variables both in district and state levels in India. We identify variables as count data (population samples), ordinal variables, and continuous variables. We have visualizations with maps, simple and stacked bar charts, scatter plots, population pyramids, and others. The final visualization tool is at https://gvcl.shinyapps.io/NFHS4Vis/
